# learning-cpp-oops

1. OOPS -> Object Oriented Programming System is a programming paradigm based on the concept of "objects", which can contain data, in the form of fields, and code, in the form of procedures. A feature of objects is an object's procedures that can access and often modify the data fields of the object with which they are associated.

Example : Car -> a. Manufacturer b. Model c. Year d. Color e. Engine -> Attributes
Behavious : a. Start b. Stop c. Accelerate d. Decelerate e. Turn -> Methods

Class : A class is a blueprint for creating objects (a particular data structure), providing initial values for state (member variables or attributes), and implementations of behavior (member functions or methods).

Everything in C++ inside a class is Private. -> **Default**

Access Modifiers : There are 3 Access Modifiers in C++. that are -> Public, Private, Protected.

Private = Only accessible within the class (Hidden).
Public = Accessible from outside the class.
Protected = Accessible from outside the class but only in derived class.

## Constructors

1. Constructor is a special member function of a class that is executed whenever we create new objects of that class.
2. Default Constructor : A constructor that doesn't have any parameters is called Default Constructor. -> Automatically generated by the compiler if we don't define any constructor.
   Rules :

- Constructor doesn't have a return type.
- Constructor name should be same as the class name.
- Constructor should be public.

# 4 Pillars of OOPS

1. Encapsulation
2. Abstraction
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism

1. **Encapsulation** is an Object Oriented Programming concept that binds together the data and functions that manipulate the data, and that keeps both safe from outside interference and misuse.

2. **Abstraction** is the concept of object-oriented programming that "shows" only essential attributes and "hides" unnecessary information.

3. **Inheritance** is the mechanism by which an object acquires some or all of the features of another object.

4. **Polymorphism** is the ability of a variable, function or object to take on multiple forms.
